# Automated Conformance Testing for JavaScript Engines via Deep Compiler Fuzzing: Artifact

We provide a pre-configured live server with a [Python Jupyter Notebook](#jupyter) and a [Docker Image](#docker) to support artifact for our paper (COMFORT) on PLDI 2021 paper on Javascript Conformance Testing. 

Our docker image contains reduced-size data sets for evaluating our GPT-2 based test program generator, test case mutation and reduction, and differential tester. The full dataset is quite large (>100 GB uncompressed), and we are working on finding a method for sharing it with the community. The idea is that this directory contains minimal working examples which can be evaluated in a reasonable amount of time. All of our code and data will be open-sourced upon publication and has been developed with extensibility as a primary goal.


# Getting Start Guide <br id = "jupyter" >
For convenience, we have provided a pre-configured live server with a Python Jupyter Notebook to work through our techiques (Please see the ReadMe document on the AE submission website on how to access the Notebook). The notebook provides instructions on how to test our techniques on a small-scale dataset. 

Note that we do not log IP addresses or other accessing information, but if you have concerns on this, you could use a [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/) to access our demo website. 

**While it is possible to create your own copy of our Jupyter Notebook usng the code in this repository, we recommend to use the configured server as it is non-trivial to configure the Notebook locally within a docker container**. 

# Step-by-Step Instructions <br id = "docker">

## ★ Main Results <span id = "bug-list">

The main results of the paper are a [list of bugs](./Bug-List.md) exposed by COMFORT-generated test cases and other competing methods. 

## ★ Docker Image <br id = "dockerimg">
We prepare our artifact within a Docker image to run "out of the box". The Docker image can be downloaded from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JkS2S4GOCPdicQsbDeqlkzXO4tZ-2Iyg?usp=sharing). 
Our docker image was tested on a host machine running Ubuntu 18.04. 

## ★ Artifact Contents
The Docker image contains the following scripts for evaluation. 

 * [01_evaluate_generator.py](https://github.com/NWU-NISL-Fuzzing/COMFORT/blob/main/artifact_evaluation/src/01_evaluate_generator.py): A demonstration of training a GPT-2 model to generate JS programs. 
 * [02_evaluate_mutator.py](https://github.com/NWU-NISL-Fuzzing/COMFORT/blob/main/artifact_evaluation/src/02_evaluate_mutator.py): A demonstration of test program mutation. This demonstrates how we mutate the test JS programs generated by the previous demonstration.
 * [03_evaluate_harness.py](https://github.com/NWU-NISL-Fuzzing/COMFORT/blob/main/artifact_evaluation/src/03_evaluate_harness.py): A demonstration of our differential testing approach. The results from the prior steps are used to perform differential testing on one JS testbed (engine).
 * [04_coverage_calculate.py](https://github.com/NWU-NISL-Fuzzing/COMFORT/blob/main/artifact_evaluation/src/04_coverage_calculate.py): A demonstraction of the code coverage statistics, showing the quality of the test cases generated by different fuzzers.

### Preliminary: Configure the GPU Running Environment (optional) <br id = "gpusetup">
If you wish to use an NVIDIA GPU on the host machine (running Ubuntu 18.04) to execute the AE, please follow the instructions below to setup the GPU execution environment:

> - Copy [this bash script](../data/nvidia-container-runtime-script.sh) and run the following command in **the host environment** with sudo permission:
> 
>     ```bash nvidia-container-runtime-script.sh```
>      
>      Note that this step may break the existing GPU and docker setup of the host machine. 
>  
> - Next, test if the GPU running environment is successfully configured:
>  
>   ```docker run --help | grep -i gpus  ```
>   
>     You should be able to see the the GPU information if it is successfully configured.

Please note that the above steps for configuring the GPU environment were only tested on **a host machine running Ubuntu 18.04**. It may throw exceptions or errors when configuring in other Linux distributions. If you have difficulties in setting up the GPU, you can opt to use the CPU for AE testing or use the pre-configured, live server given in the getting start guide to go through the setps. 

## Evaluation Steps

Follow the instructions below to use our AE scripts.

### ★ Loading Docker Image
After downloading the [docker image](#dockerimg), using the following commands to load the docker image (approximate 45 minutes on a laptop) on the host machine:
```
unzip 53.zip
cd 53
docker load -i 53.tar
docker tag 73a15dc0bf7b pldi2021:comfort
```

### ★ Importing the Docker Image

> - **Using CPU:** Using the following command to import the docker container and use the CPU for testing:
>     
>     ```docker run -it --name comfort pldi2021:comfort /bin/bash  ```
>     
> - **Using GPU:** Run the following command to import the docker container with GPU support (Make sure you have setup the GPU environment - see [here](#gpusetup)):
> 
>     ```docker run -it --name comfort --gpus all pldi2021:comfort /bin/bash  ```
>     

**[!IMPORTANT]**
> - **Setup environmental parameters:** After importing the docker container **and getting into bash** in the container, make sure you run the below command to setup the environmental variables, before using any of the AE scripts:
>
>     ```echo -e '[mysqld]\nskip-grant-tables' >> /etc/mysql/my.cnf && pip install sqlalchemy PyExecJS && source /root/.bash_profile``` 
>  
>  This script will also start a MYSQL database deamon needed for program mutations and differentiated testing. 

 

### ★ Evaluation of Our JS Program Generator 

### ☆ Program generation using our pre-trained model <br id="pregenerator">
(*approximate runtime: 20 minutes for using a GPU, ~4 hours when using a CPU*)

We provide a pre-trained GPT-2 JS program generator used by our paper for test program generation. 

Using the following command to generate about 512 (defined by ```nsamples```) test programs running on the CPU (set ```--multi_gpu=1``` to run on the GPU)：

   ``` python /root/src/01_evaluate_generator.py --mode=generate --use_nisl_model=1 --multi_gpu=0 --nsamples=512 ```

This step takes around 4 hours to generate 512 test programs using a laptop CPU and the model loading stage may take around 30 minutes. The  ```--nsamples``` parameter controls how many test programs to generate, **which must be a multiply of the default bach size of 16 (e.g., 16, 32, 64, etc.)**.

All generated test cases are written to directory ```/root/data/generated_data/complete_testcases/```. 

### ☆ Optional: Program generation using a locally trained model  <br id = "generation">
This option involves two steps: (1) first fine-tune a GPT-2 model locally and then (2) use the trained model for test program generation.

#### Step 1: Train the JS Program Generator <br id="generator">
(*approximate runtime: ~1 hour using a GPU， 5 hours using a CPU*)

* Evaluate GPT-2 program synthesizer by running the following command (set ```--multi_gpu=1``` for using a GPU for training):

    ``` python /root/src/01_evaluate_generator.py --mode=finetune  --multi_gpu=0 ```

The program uses a small JS corpus of 10,000 JS programs randomly selected from our entire training corpus to refine a scale-downed, pre-trained GPT-2 model (that was trained on natural language texts) on the JS corpus.

We have reduced the size of the corpus so that it takes around 5 hours to train on a multi-core CPU (~1 hour on a GPU). For our paper, we trained our model on more data (140,000 JS programs rather than 2,000) for longer (~150,000 iterations rather than 1,000). *As such, the quality of output of this model is lower, which is likely to produce shorter and fewer syntactically correct programs*. 

Training the model can be interrupted after the first training iteration. Once trained, the model does not need to be re-trained. *Note that it takes around 20 minutes to load the dataset and the model using a laptop CPU*. 


#### Step 2: Program generation
(*approximate runtime: 20 minutes for using a  GPU, ~4 hours when using a CPU*)

**!Important:** To run this script, make sure you have trained a model using ```01_evaluate_generator.py``` dsescribed in the previous step.

* To use the [trained model](#generator) to generate the test programs, run the following command (set ```--multi_gpu=1``` for using a GPU for inference): 

    ``` python /root/src/01_evaluate_generator.py --mode=generate --use_nisl_model=0 --multi_gpu=0 --nsamples=512 ```

The  ```--nsamples``` parameter controls how many test programs to generate, **which must be a multiply of the default bach size of 16 (e.g., 16, 32, 64, etc.)**. 

*Note that it takes around 30 minutes to load the model using a laptop CPU*. 

### ★ Evaluation of test program coverage 
(*approximate runtime: 40 minutes per fuzzer*)

* Using the following command to compute the percentage of the generated test programs passed [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) (a static JS syntax checker), and the coverage repored by [Istanbul](https://istanbul.js.org/) for Comfort. This script runs on 1,000 randomly chosen test programs from our full test dataset. 

   ``` python /root/src/04_coverage_calculate.py --fuzzer=comfort --reporter_dir=/root/data/codeCoverage/coverageReporters ```

Change the value of the parameter ```--fuzzer``` to be  `codealchemist, deepsmith, die, fuzzilli or montage`, to calculate the passing rate and code coverage of other fuzzers.

This data corresponds to Figure 8 in our paper. *Note that since the test programs are randonmly chosen for sampling,  the numbers could be different from the ones reported in the paper for all fuzzers*. 

#### *Optional*: Code coverage on larger datasets

You can use the following command to test the code coverage on 10,000 randomly chosen Comfort-generated test programs for longer run (12+ hours per fuzzer):
   
   ``` python /root/src/04_coverage_calculate.py --coverage_files=/root/data/codeCoverage/totalFiles/comfort_generate --reporter_dir=/root/data/codeCoverage/coverageReporters ```
  
Replace the ```comfort_generate``` directory in option ```--coverage_files=/root/data/codeCoverage/totalFiles/comfort_generate``` with ```codealchemist_generate```, ```deepsmith_generate```, ```die_generate```, ```fuzzilli_generate```, or ```montage_generate``` to compute the coverage on the 10,000 test programs generated by other fuzzers in Figure 8. Once again, the number may be different due to random sampling. 

### ★ Demonstration of Test Program Mutation
(*approximate runtime: 20 minutes*)

* Evaluate our ECMAScript-guided test data generator by running the following command:

   ```python /root/src/02_evaluate_mutator.py --input_path=/root/data/generated_data/complete_testcases --save_path=/root/data/mutation_result```

**Note that our tool can only mutate test programs with a JS API. If the test program does not contain a JS API, it will yield an eror meassge `This test case fails to be mutated as it does not contain any API.`** When all test cases have processed, you can see the number of test cases that were mutated successfully. *Note that most of the GPT-2 generated test programs will not be mutated, but they were still used in our fuzzing test; hence, are not wasted*. 


### ★ Demonstration of Differential Testing
(*approximate runtime: 1 min per 120 test cases*)

**[!Important]**: This step must run after the program mutation step described in the previous section. 

* Evaluate our differential fuzzer on *ten* JS test beds by running the following command (In our paper, we tested 102 testbeds on a much larger dataset for 200 hours):

   ```python /root/src/03_evaluate_harness.py --testsuite=/root/data/mutation_result/ --clear_classifier=False```

Since we only test on <= 512 generated programs ([nsamples](#pregenerator) <= 512), it is likely that none of the test cases triggers a potential bug.

**Known Issue:** If you get a  *mysql connection exception* (e.g., pymysql.err.OperationError) error, make sure you have run the setup script as:

```echo -e '[mysqld]\nskip-grant-tables' >> /etc/mysql/my.cnf && pip install sqlalchemy PyExecJS && source /root/.bash_profile```

### Reproducing prior fuzzers
To comparison, we use the program generators of prior fuzzers (e.g., CodeAlchemist, DeepSmith, Fuzzilli, Montage) to generate JS test cases, which are then used to test the JS engines used in our paper. In our Docker Image, we have configured the generators of prior fuzzers and use [the instructions](./prior-fuzzers.md) to generate the JS test cases.

## Remark

The docker image provides a small-scale experiment to showcase the working mechanism of our work. Our main results (that run much longer – 200 hours per JS testbed on a larger test dataset) can be found at the [Bug List](./Bug-List.md) section. 

# Reusing Our AE <br id="reuse">
Notes for reusing our AE can be found at [this document](./ReuseNotes.md).
